1. If you are under 18 years of age, in order to apply for an examination permit or a special learner permit you must present
a. Consent form signed by a parent or a guardian
b. Proof of school attendance
c. Immunization records
d. US Passport:
2. All Graduated Driver License (GDL) permits are valid for how long?
a. Two years
b. 90 days
c. Six months
d. One year:
3. Individuals who are applying for their first driver license are required to participate in which program?
a. Graduated Driver License (GDL) program
b. Driver Permit Program (DPP)
c. After school driving programs
d. English as a second language (ESL) courses:
4.  In order to operate a large truck, bus or vehicle that transports hazardous materials, you need what?
a. Valid US Passport
b. Commercial Driver License (CDL) with the proper endorsements
c. Basic Digital Driver License (DDL)
d. Both B and C:
5. When moving to New Jersey from out-of-state, how soon are you required to get a New Jersey license?
a. 30 days
b. 60 days
c. 90 days
d. One year:
6. When operating a vehicle in New Jersey, you must carry what in addition to a valid driver license or provisional license?
a. Valid insurance card
b. Valid vehicle registration and insurance card
c. Valid insurance card, vehicle registration and 6 points of identification
d. A valid vehicle registration card:
7. Requirements for 6 Point ID Verification include but are not limited to 
a. A primary and a secondary ID
b. At least six points of ID
c. One proof of address
d. All of the above:8. If you wish to use a birth certificate as part of 6 Point ID Verification, it must be 
8. If you wish to use a birth certificate as part of 6 Point ID Verification, it must be 
a. Civil document with a state/municipal seal
b. Original document or a certified copy – not a photocopy or fax
c. Issued in the same name that you currently use or accompanied by a proof of a legal name change if your name is different
d. All of the above:
9. To get a special learner permit you must be how old?
a. 15 years old
b. 16 years old
c. 17 years old
d. Junior in high school:
10. To get a provisional license you must 
a. Pass the MVC road test, be at least 18 years old and have completed 6 months of supervised driving without any suspensions
b. Pass the MVC road test, be at least 17 years old and have completed one year of supervised driving without any suspensions
c. Pass the MVC road test, be at least 17 years old and have completed 6 months of supervised practice driving
d. Pass the MVC road test, be at least 18, completed 6 months of unsupervised driving: 
11. A basic driver license will be issued to applicants who 
a. Are at least 18 years old and have completed one year of unsupervised driving with a provisional driver license
b. Are at least 18 years old and have completed one year of supervised driving with a provisional driver license
c. Are at least 17 years old and have passed the MVC road test
d. Are at least 17 years old, have passed the MVC road test and have completed six months of supervised driving with a provisional driver license:
12. The restrictions for a special learner permit prohibit driving 
a. Between 11 01 p.m. and 5 00 a.m.
b. With more than one person who is not from the special learner permit holder’s household
c. Without an Adult Supervising Driver who must be 21 years of age, posses a valid NJ license and have a minimum of three years driving experience
d. All of the above:
13. To take a road test at a Driver Testing Center, an applicant must 
a. Provide a vehicle with a valid inspection sticker, registration and insurance card
b. Show a valid examination permit
c. Be accompanied by a licensed driver
d. All of the above:
14. If an applicant fails to pass the road test when can he take the test again?
a. The same day
b. One week later
c. One month later
d. Two weeks later:
15. Applicants may not have the opportunity to take the road test if the road test vehicle is rejected for one the following?
a. Unsafe tires
b. Missing seat belts
c. Examiner cannot access the foot brake or parking brake (e.g., due to a center console)
d. All of the above:
16. New Jersey law requires that seat belts be worn by which of the following 
a. Driver
b. All front-seat occupants
c. Children under 18 years of age
d. All of the above:
17. A federally approved safety seat or booster seat must be used for 
a. Children up to the age of 10
b. Children up to the age of 8
c. Children up to the age of 8 or a weight of 80 pounds
d. Children up to the age of 10 or 100 pounds:
18. Motorists are responsible for maintaining the condition of their car which includes but is not limited to 
a. Proper floor mats
b. Functioning AM/FM radio
c. Removal of snow or ice from vehicle before driving it
d. All of the above:
19. A motorist should grip the steering wheel by the outside rim at which position?
a. 9 and 3 o’clock
b. 10 and 2 o’clock
c. 10 and 3 o’clock
d. Anywhere along the outer rim:
20. What is the approximate shortest stopping distance for a car traveling at 70 mph on a dry surface?
a. 143 feet
b. 262 feet
c. 532 feet
d. 998 feet:
21. How far in advance must a driver signal before making a turn?
a. One car length
b. 30 feet
c. 100 feet
d. At driver’s discretion:
22. To properly parallel park a motorist should 
a. Use turn signals
b. Roll down driver side window
c. Put on flashing hazard lights
d. Honk horn:
23. What is the top speed limit for school zones and residential districts?
a. 15 mph
b. 25 mph
c. 30 mph
d. 35 mph:
24. Which of the following lane markings indicates that passing is allowed?
a. Broken line
b. Solid line
c. Yellow line
d. White line
25. When yielding to pedestrians in a crosswalk, motorists must 
a. Slow down enough to let the pedestrian across
b. Come to a complete stop if the pedestrian has a foot in the crosswalk
c. Stop if the pedestrian is in their lane
d. Slow down or stop at the driver’s discretion:
26. When entering a highway, parkway or turnpike a motorist should 
a. Come to a complete stop in the acceleration lane
b. Speed up to the flow of traffic when leaving the acceleration lane
c. Slow down when leaving the acceleration lane
d. Exceed the posted advisory speed limit at the entrance ramp:
27. If a motorist’s vehicle becomes disabled he/she must 
a. Raise the hood to signal for assistance and turn on the emergency flashers
b. Get into a stranger’s vehicle
c. Leave the car where it became disabled
d. Remain outside the vehicle:
28. A motorist must come to a complete stop behind a school bus if 
a. The bus’ yellow lights are flashing
b. The bus’ red lights are flashing
c. The bus is making a turn
d. All of the above
29. When emergency vehicles sound sirens and/or use flashing lights a motorist should do which of the following?
a. Come to a complete stop
b. Steer to the extreme right of the roadway and proceed with caution
c. Steer to the extreme right of the roadway, stop and wait for the emergency vehicle to pass
d. Slow down and proceed with caution:
30. Passing is NOT permitted in which situation?
a. On a residential street
b. On roads without center lines
c. At a railroad crossing
d. In a school zone:
31. The state of New Jersey permits right turns on red in which circumstance?
a. At all intersections, unless indicated by "No Turn On Red"
b. In lanes designated "right turn only"
c. In 25-mph zones
d. Never
32. Headlights must be used 
a. Between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise
b. When using windshield wipers
c. When encountering fog, mist, smoke or other factors that reduce visibility
d. All of the above:
33. A motorist should never stop or park within how many feet of a fire hydrant 
a. 5 feet
b. 10 feet
c. 15 feet
d. 20 feet
34. Using a handheld cellular telephone or a texting device is permitted 
a. Only when driving 25 mph or less
b. Only in situations where it does not interfere with safe operation of the vehicle
c. Only in an emergency
d. Only at stop lights or stop signs:
35. A motorist should always keep a safe driving distance from other vehicles on the road.
a. Keep a distance of 5 feet for each 10 mph of speed
b. Keep a distance of 10 feet for each 10 mph of speed
c. Keep a distance of 15 feet for each 10 mph of speed
d. Keep a distance of 20 feet (one car length) for each 10 mph of speed:
36. A good rule of thumb for calculating safe driving distances is the 
a. One second rule
b. Three second rule
c. Five second rule
d. Ten second rule:
37.To avoid hydroplaning on wet roads with heavy rain, standing water or slush, you should reduce your speed to 
a. Less than 15 mph
b. Less than 25 mph
c. Less than 35 mph
d. Less than 45 mph
38. If an emergency highway stop is necessary, a motorist should 
a. Signal and turn onto the shoulder at or near traffic speed
b. Turn on the parking lights or emergency warning lights
c. Raise the hood
d. All of the above
39. If a vehicle’s conventional disc and drum brakes suddenly fail, a motorist should 
a. Apply full pressure to the brakes
b. Shift to a lower gear and apply full pressure to the brakes
c. Shift to a lower gear and pump the brake fast and hard several times
d. None of the above:
40. In case of a collision, a motorist should 
a. Wait at the scene, but try not to block traffic
b. Call for help or seek assistance from passing motorists
c. Drive to the nearest police station and report the accident
d. A & B:
41. Blood Alcohol Concentration (BAC) is determined by 
a. How much alcohol you drink and how quickly you drink it
b. How much food you eat and your body weight
c. How old you are
d. A & B
42. How much does the risk for causing an accident increase if a driver reaches a Blood Alcohol Content level (BAC) of .05?
a. Very little
b. Doubles
c. Triples
d. Quadruples
43. What do 1.5 oz of 80-proof whiskey, 12 oz of beer, and 5 oz of table wine have in common?
a. They all have the same taste
b. They all have the same smell
c. They are all the same price
d. They all contain the same amount of alcohol:
44. The best way to avoid driving under the influence of alcohol is to 
a. Eat nutritious foods and snacks while drinking
b. Drink one cup of coffee for every alcoholic beverage consumed
c. Arrange for a designated driver, use public transportation or call a cab
d. Drink less as the time to drive approaches:
45. All but which of the following are likely to affect your basic driving abilities?
a. Prescription drugs
b. Cold Pills
c. Tranquilizers
d. Soda
46. After alcohol, this drug is most often found with drivers involved in collisions 
a. Marijuana
b. Allergy Medicine
c. Tranquilizers
d. Cold medicine:
47. Of the following actions, which will least likely cause you to lose your driving privileges?
a. Driving with a suspended license
b. Driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol
c. Driving with your radio on
d. Violating traffic laws:
48. At which age will drivers will be subject to penalty if found operating a vehicle with a Blood Alcohol Content level (BAC) of .01 
a. 65
b. 22
c. 21
d. Under 21:
49. According to the New Jersey Implied Consent law, if a motorist refuses a breath test he or she will 
a. Be rewarded
b. Be warned by a law enforcement official
c. Not be affected in any way
d. Be detained to undergo blood work by hospital staff:
50.The current Blood Alcohol Content level (BAC) for drivers 21 and over is 
a. .01 %
b. .05%
c. .08%
d. .10%:
51. The Point System is used as a way for the MVC to keep track of a motorist’s driving record. You are most likely to receive points on your license when you 
a. Drive regularly
b. Drive with your seatbelt
c. Drive with others
d. Drive recklessly:
52. If you have gained a number of points on your license, which of the following may help them to be reduced?
a. Driving in the same manner
b. Completing a program such as the Driver Improvement Program
c. Getting a new license
d. You cannot reduce points from your license:
53. If you accumulate __ points on your license in a period of three years or less, you may be subject to a surcharge of $150, and $25 for each additional point.
a. 2
b. 4
c. 6
d. 5:
54. Passing which of the following vehicles is considered a moving violation and will add points on your license?
a. Passing a frozen dessert truck
b. Passing a vehicle larger than your own car
c. Passing a commercial van
d. Passing a cement truck:
55. Up to __ point(s) will be subtracted from your driving record for every year that you go without a violation or suspension.
a. 1
b. 3
c. 2
d. Points will never be subtracted:
56. ________ is (are) the second largest category involved in motor vehicle deaths and injuries in New Jersey.
a. Animals
b. Those using bicycles only
c. Pedestrians
d. Those running only:
57. How long must drivers stop for pedestrians at a crosswalk?
a. They do not have to stop if the crosswalk is unmarked
b. Until the pedestrian has crossed past the front of the vehicle
c. Until the pedestrian completes crossing
d. They only have to stop as long as the safety signal flashes:
58. When stopping for a crosswalk on a multi-lane road, you should stop about __ feet before the crosswalk to avoid blocking the visibility of another motorist.
a. 30 ft
b. 20 ft
c. 10 ft
d. None of the above:
59. The law specifies that you must give the right-of-way when the following crosses any highway or intersection 
a. A moped or motorcycle
b. A blind person using a white or metallic cane and/or accompanied by a dog
c. A large vehicle
d. A dog
60. When passed by a motorcycle, you should ________ your speed and _________ your position.
a. Decrease; maintain
b. Maintain; change
c. Maintain; maintain
d. Increase; maintain:
61. In bad weather, a truck can take as much as __ percent longer to stop.
a. 50
b. 35
c. 30
d. 25:
62. The potential for a collision is increased when a driver is riding in the no-zone, the area around trucks where vehicles disappear into blind spots. The no-zone areas consist of the following 
a. The sides of the trucks only
b. The front and rear of the trucks only
c. The right side, rear, and front of the trucks only
d. Both sides, rear, and front of the trucks:
63. When is it safe for a driver to pass a vehicle stopped at a crosswalk?
a. Never
b. Sometimes
c. Most of the time
d. Always:
64. Animals often dart onto roads or streets. The best defense against animal related accidents is which of the following?
a. Stop as quickly as possible to allow the animal the move
b. Speed up as quickly as possible to try to pass the animal before it may cros
c. Pedestrians
d. Those running only:
65. How long must drivers stop for pedestrians at a crosswalk?
a. They do not have to stop if the crosswalk is unmarked
b. Until the pedestrian has crossed past the front of the vehicle
c. Until the pedestrian completes crossing
d. They only have to stop as long as the safety signal flashes:
66. When stopping for a crosswalk on a multi-lane road, you should stop about __ feet before the crosswalk to avoid blocking the visibility of another motorist.
a. 30 ft
b. 20 ft
c. 10 ft
d. None of the above:
67. The law specifies that you must give the right-of-way when the following crosses any highway or intersection 
a. A moped or motorcycle
b. A blind person using a white or metallic cane and/or accompanied by a dog
c. A large vehicle
d. A dog:
68. When passed by a motorcycle, you should ________ your speed and _________ your position.
a. Decrease; maintain
b. Maintain; change
c. Maintain; maintain
d. Increase; maintain:
69. In bad weather, a truck can take as much as __ percent longer to stop.
a. 50
b. 35
c. 30
d. 25:
70. The potential for a collision is increased when a driver is riding in the no-zone, the area around trucks where vehicles disappear into blind spots. The no-zone areas consist of the following 
a. The sides of the trucks only
b. The front and rear of the trucks only
c. The right side, rear, and front of the trucks only
d. Both sides, rear, and front of the trucks:
71. When is it safe for a driver to pass a vehicle stopped at a crosswalk?
a. Never
b. Sometimes
c. Most of the time
d. Always:
72. Animals often dart onto roads or streets. The best defense against animal related accidents is which of the following?
a. Stop as quickly as possible to allow the animal the move
b. Speed up as quickly as possible to try to pass the animal before it may cross
c. Pull off abruptly to the side of the road
d. Watch for animals ahead and be prepared for unexpected movement:
73. If you purchase a new or used vehicle you must do what before you operate it?
a. Wash it
b. Wax it
c. Title, register and insure it
d. Nothing:
74. To title a new vehicle, without a lien, the owner must 
a. Obtain the title through the dealership where the vehicle was purchased
b. Obtain the manufacturer’s certification of origin assigned to the owner, bring the document to any MVC agency and pay titling fee
c. A or B
d. Do nothing. If purchasing a new car, the title is taken care of by dealer:
75. To title a used vehicle, the new owner must 
a. Complete the reverse side of the title and sign it, present it to an MVC agency, pay titling fee and sales tax
b. Pay sales tax only
c. Pay the previous owner to take care of the title for you
d. Do nothing. If purchasing a used care the title automatically transfers in your name:
76. If you are replacing a title that is lost or stolen, you will need the following items 
a. A completed Application for Duplicate Certificate of Ownership only
b. A current registration certificate or insurance ID card of the vehicle only
c. A lien release from the lien holder if the vehicle was financed only
d. All of the above:
77. If you are replacing a title that is damaged, you will need the following items 
a. The damaged title and $20 for the fee
b. The damaged title only
c. $20 for the duplication fee only
d. An Application for Duplicate Certificate of Ownership only
78. To register your vehicle you will need all but which of the following 
a. A completed New Jersey Vehicle Registration application
b. Proof of ownership
c. Appropriate fee
d. Your old vehicle:
79. Where should your license plates be attached to your passenger vehicle?
a. The front and back of the vehicle
b. The back of the vehicle only
c. The front of the vehicle only
d. Any place as long as one is visible:
80. A disabled driver must have what to park in handicapped designated parking spots?
a. Handicapped plates
b. An exclusive handicapped placard displayed on the vehicle’s rear view mirror
c. An exclusive handicapped driver’s license displayed in the rear window
d. A or B:
81. All New Jersey registered gasoline-fueled vehicles, except new vehicles, must pass state safety and emissions inspections every _ year (s).
a. 4
b. 3
c. 2
d. Every year:
82. Motor vehicle liability insurance is ________ in the state of New Jersey.
a. Suggested
b. Optional
c. Mandatory
d. Free:
83. A valid license must be carried when driving at what times?
a. The hours between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.
b. The hours between 5 p.m. and 9 a.m.
c. At all times
d. Only when driving for long periods of time:
84. If you move within New Jersey or out of state, you must report the change of address within what period of time?
a. 1 week
b. 1 month
c. 3 months
d. 2 weeks:
85. In the event of a lost or stolen permit, the following forms of identification are required to obtain a duplicate permit 
a. Proof of identity
b. Proof that he or she is 17 years of age or older
c. Proof that the permit was stolen
d. Both a and b:
86. The MVC complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law that states that government agencies cannot deny programs and activities to anyone because of disabilities. In support of this law, the MVC provides all but which of the following programs?
a. Guide dogs
b. Teletype digital display machine phone access to general information
c. Two 24hour general information lines
d. Oral, written and automated driver testing:
87. Just one of these can save or enhance more than 50 lives 
a. A licensed driver
b. An organ or tissue donor
c. A voter
d. A driver older than age 65:
88. Among other important items, a ______of your destinations should be kept in the vehicle and you should know how to use it properly.
a. GPS system
b. Map
c. Picture
d. Description:
89. When applying for a driver’s license for the first time, and each time it is renewed, MVC staff will ask if the applicant would like what designation to appear on his or her license?
a. Under 21
b. Weight
c. Organ Donor
d. Registered to Vote:
90. If you change your name legally or make changes to the name of your corporation, you must report the changes to the MVC within what period of time?
a. 1 month
b. 1 week
c. 2 weeks
d. 5 days:





















































































































